---
layout: post
title:  "Release 0.8.0"
date:   2018-09-27 11:49:38 +0100
categories: sldeditor release
---

SLDEditor Release 0.8.0
=======================

Version 0.8.0 of the SLD Editor has been released and available [here][sldeditor-release].  The main area of improvement is the filter dialog where there were a number of issues.

Collection_Count function
=========================

The Collection_Count function in GeoTools was returning the wrong parameter description so I created a [pull request](https://osgeo-org.atlassian.net/browse/GEOT-6032) to fix the issue in GeoTools 20.0.

GeoTools filter functions
=========================

The following functions in GeoTools did not have a toString() method implemented which meant the Java class name was displayed in the filter dialog instead of the function name and parameters:

* RecodeFunction
* StringTemplateFunction
* JenksNaturalBreaksFunction
* CategorizeFunction
* UniqueIntervalFunction
* QuantileFunction
* StandardDeviationFunction
* EqualIntervalFunction
* ConstrastFunction
* LightenFunction
* GrayscaleFunction
* ModuloFunction

I created a [pull request](https://osgeo-org.atlassian.net/browse/GEOT-6033) to fix the issue in GeoTools 20.0.

PropertyIsLike function
=======================

In GeoTools the PropertyIsLike uses String parameters but the [Filter specification](http://schemas.opengis.net/filter/1.1.0/filter.xsd) states that they should be single characters.  Updated the code to refelect this.

RasterSymbolizer SelectedChannelType expression
===============================================

In GeoTools 20.0 the RasterSymbolizer SelectedChannelType changed from being a value (before GeoServer 2.14) to an expression (GeoServer 2.14 onwards), update the Vendor Option settings to get the benefit.

Development internals
=====================

A number of changes have been made internally including:

JUnit 5
-------
Upgraded unit testing to use JUnit 5, relatively painless. 

JAXB
----

The most painful area has been the move to deprecate JAXB in forthcoming Java versions.  JAXB is used to turn the XML schemas into Java objects which can then read the contents of XML files directly into the Java objects.  Used to read the user interface field configuration into the application and saves maintaining the XSD and the Java objects. The project still compiles on Java 8 but later versions cause issues with JAXB. I'm hoping Java 11 development catches up and a solution can be found soon.  
 
Installers
----------
As a consequence of the JAXB issues my aim of creating a single executable JAR for all operating systems this is now not possible. Parameters have to be passed into the JVM which means either a separate script to start the application or installers for all the different operating systems.  I'm hoping Java 11 will sort this out but currently there are now separate Windows, Mac OS and Ubuntu installers for the application.

Code Coverage
-------------

Code coverage has increased to 83% but I have created a GeoServer virtual machine using Vagrant to allow the GeoServer integration to be unit tested locally which can increase the code coverage statistics further.  Haven't found a way of hosting this VM in Travis yet to get the increased code coverage numbers.

[sldeditor-release]: https://github.com/robward-scisys/sldeditor/releases/tag/0.8.0
